Belly fat has long been thought to be particularly bad for your heart, but now, a new study adds more evidence to the idea that it may also be bad for your brain.
The study, from the United Kingdom, found that people who were obese and had a high waist-to-hip ratio (a measure of belly fat) had slightly lower brain volumes, on average, compared with people who were a healthy weight. Specifically, belly fat was linked with lower volumes of gray matter, the brain tissue that contains nerve cells.
Our research looked at a large group of people and found obesity, specifically around the middle, may be linked with brain shrinkage,” lead study author Mark Hamer, a professor at Loughborough University’s School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences in Leicestershire, England, said in a statement.
Lower brain volume, or brain shrinkage, has been linked with an increased risk of memory decline and dementia.
The new findings, published Jan. 9 in the journal Neurology, suggest that the combination of obesity (as measured by body mass index, or BMI) and a high waist-to-hip ratio may be a risk factor for brain shrinkage, the researchers said.
However, the study found only an association between belly fat and lower brain volume, and cannot prove that carrying more fat around the waist actually causes brain shrinkage. It could be that people with lower volumes of gray matter in certain brain areas are at a higher risk of obesity. Future studies are needed to tease out the reasons for the link.
Belly fat, also called visceral fat, is fat that’s stored deep within the abdominal cavity. It’s tied to greater health risks than subcutaneous fat, or fat that’s stored just under the skin. Previous studies have linked visceral fat with a higher risk of heart disease (including heart attack and stroke), Type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure and premature death, according to the Mayo Clinic.
Some previous studies have also found a link between visceral fat or a high waist-to-hip ratio and lower brain volume, but these studies tended to be small and did not look at the combined effect of BMI and waist-to-hip ratio.
In the new study, the researchers analyzed information from more than 9,600 people living in the United Kingdom, with an average age of 55. Participants had their BMI and waist-to-hip ratio measured, and underwent an MRI to determine their brain volumes.
The study found that people with both a high BMI and high waist-to-hip ratio had the lowest brain volumes, compared with people who had just a high BMI (but not a high waist-to-hip ratio) and people of a healthy weight.
Specifically, people with both a high BMI and high waist-to-hip ratio had an average gray matter volume of 786 cubic centimeters, compared with 793 cubic centimeters for people with a high BMI but not a high waist-to-hip ratio; and 798 cubic centimeters for people of a healthy weight.
The findings held even after researchers took into account other factors that can affect brain volume, including age, smoking and high blood pressure.
Though the study didn't look at potential mechanisms linking visceral fat and brain shrinkage, one hypothesis is that this type of fat is thought to produce inflammatory substances that may play a role in brain atrophy, the researchers said.
Dr. Gayatri Devi, a neurologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York, who was not involved with the study, agreed with the findings. Brain gray matter shrinkage...seems to be associated with obesity and with increased visceral fat,” she said.
All this goes to show that good general health is very important for good brain health, Devi told Live Science.
Upskirting; -- the practice of filming up someone's clothing without their permission -- is on its way to becoming a crime in England and Wales after the House of Lords passed legislation that will see offenders face up to two years in jail.
The new legislation was passed by the upper house of Parliament on Tuesday and is now awaiting a rubber stamp of approval of Royal Assent.
Campaigner Gina Martin, who started an online campaign to outlaw upskirting in 2017, said in a statement posted to Twitter that she was over the moon that the bill had passed.
After becoming a victim and recognizing the gap in the law, I.. partnered with Ryan Whelan, of Gibson Dunn and began 18 months of exhaustive, emotional and life changing work, she wrote.
I always thought politics was (impenetrable), but with the right help and the willpower you can do it!
Under the new legislation, perpetrators would face up to two years in jail and the most serious offenders would be named on the sex offenders register.
The campaign was picked up by Liberal Democrat MP Wera Hobhouse, who first introduced the measure to Parliament. It faced a setback in June 2018 when its progress was halted by lawmaker Christopher Chope, prompting cries of shame from other lawmakers.
The bill eventually secured government backing after UK Prime Minister Theresa May said she was disappointed the attempt to make it a criminal offense did not progress.
Scotland has had its own law on upskirting for almost a decade, while several US and Australian states have legislated against the behavior and it is illegal in New Zealand and India.
Half of current jobs will be taken over by AI within 15 years, China's leading AI expert has warned.
Kai-Fu Lee, the author of bestselling book AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley, and the New World Order, told Dailymail.com the world of employments was facing a crisis 'akin to that faced by farmers during the industrial revolution.'
'People aren't really fully aware of the effect AI will have on their jobs,' he said.
Lee, who is a VC in China and once headed up Google in the region, has over 30 years of experience in AI.
He believe it is imperative to 'warn people there is displacement coming, and to tell them how they can start retraining.'
Luckily, he said all is not lost for humanity.
'AI is powerful and adaptable, but it can't do everything that humans do.'
Lee believe AI cannot create, conceptualize, or do complex strategic planning, or undertake complex work that requires precise hand-eye coordination.
He also says it is poor at dealing with unknown and unstructured spaces.
Crucially, he says AI cannot interact with humans 'exactly like humans', with empathy, human-human connection, and compassion.
Psychiatrists, social workers and marriage counselors are unlikely to lose their jobs, along with nurses, AI researchers and scientists, he believes.
However, some jobs will disappear- and quickly.
Most at risk are telemarketers and telesales people, Lee said, pointing to Google's controversial AI bot system that can fool humans as an example of the future.
'You've probably already received robo-calls, but future calls will be more natural,' he says.
'AI can use customer profiles, past purchases, and emotional recognition to find ways to appeal to them - even using a soothing female voice or a persuasive male voice.'
Lee also said customer support, warehouse workers and telephone operators are at risk.
The key to jobs in the future will be empathy, he said.
'Human to human interaction is safe, providing comfort and satisfaction is safe.
He also warned education will also have to change dramatically to encourage a new way of thinking, making people 'more individualistic, and more empathetic'.
'We also need to focus on what children want to do and show particular passion and talent for something, we need to encourage them to go for it.
'Super talent in children will be found earlier.
'Parents need to know whatever they thought was right, is probably wrong.
'You need to let your kids go after what they love, and encourage them.
'Make sure they spend a lot of time understanding why it is important to help people, and why communication skills are important - don't play on the phone all the time.'
He also warned many millennials will need to re-balance their life to focus on social skills - but is confident they will be able to adapt.
The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) on Sunday distanced itself from a poorly made booklet for the 2019 AFC Asian Cup in UAE, saying the error-laden material had nothing to do with the organizing committee but had been printed by a local media outlet.
On Saturday, ahead of the opener between UAE and Bahrain, reporters at the media center of the Zayed Sports City Stadium got their hands on the event's manual in Arabic. However, the booklet featured flagrant mistakes, including incorrect photos, inaccurate information and wrong country maps.
The stadium's press officer apologized for the mistakes to journalists who inquired about the blunders, and said the copies will be recalled and revised. The press officer also clarified that the manual was not an official content published by the AFC. The AFC has already ordered the recall of all copies for revision.
On one of the pages about Team China, the manual showed the outline map of the United States, on which China's national flag was added. The US neither sent a team to the UAE, nor is a member of the AFC.
Another mistake was made in the prediction of China's first lineup of players, which included Du Wei, Huang Bowen and Ren Hang.
Huang and Ren played in the last event in 2014 while Du played in 2011 – however, none of the footballers was on the list submitted by China.
Other mistakes included using a family photo of players from the Republic of Korea to introduce the team of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK); and using a family photo of Chinese players to present footballers from Kyrgyzstan.
China and Kyrgyzstan will meet on the pitch for their first game on January 7.